# Profiling States Using Yelp Data by Revealing the Dominant Categories of Businesses

A city’s establishments are its lifeblood - businesses both big and small provide employment and enjoyment to citizens and provide taxes to the public sector. Cities grow to have their own identities and personalities, for example: Makati is known for its traditional business district, skyscrapers, and traffic enforcers while BGC is known to be trendier, with its business district growing alongside its recreational establishments. However, a city may not be readily aware of its offerings to the public and may not understand what it can do to improve the collection of its establishments in order to draw more visitors. The goal of our analysis is to describe the identity of a city by studying their dominant Yelp establishments and possibly use this information to identify opportunities for the city.

Each city’s dominant identity can be used to create complementary businesses that would benefit the city and its existing patrons. For example, a city with plenty of highly rated spas marketed towards moms might want to set up day care centers nearby. Tired moms who want to treat themselves to a spa day could then leave their kids at nearby day care centers, and these centers would provide jobs to citizens and income for the city. With knowledge of city profile/identity, cities can promote themselves to tourists by emphasizing categories aligned with their areas of strength. Travel agencies can use such information to suggest potential destinations based on similar traveller interests.
